README.md, before:

# PASAL
This repository contains the implementation of the paper "PASAL: Progress- And Sparsity-Aware Loss Balancing For Heterogeneous Dataset Fusion" from Gorges et al.

### Getting started
A Dockerfile is provided to ease with the setup of the environment.

To build the image:
```
docker build . -t pasal
```

To create the container:
```
docker run -it -v ./paper:/home/pasal/paper:Z pasal
```

## Preprocessing
Preprocessing is split into multiple parts:

### Dataset preprocessing

To process the DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge datasets and datasets from Pyrfume, run:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/datasets/
./preprocess.sh
```

### Old feature calculation
During the development, the input for the feature selection was frozen to ensure reproducibility. These files are located at source/preprocessing/old_features/.

Steps to reproduce:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/old_features/datasets/
./preprocess.sh
cd ..
python3 fusion.py
python3 to_sdf.py
python3 calculate_map4.py
python3 calculate_mordred_features_.py
```

PaDEL features were calculated with the GUI, which can be obtained [here](http://www.yapcwsoft.com/dd/padeldescriptor/).

Note that the feature calculation relies on third-party tools, that can produce non-deterministic results.

### Feature calculation
To run the feature calculation steps, execute following command, which may take a while:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/
./preprocess.sh
```

## Training

The flag "num_worker" must be adjusted based on the existing hardware setup.

Ablation study:
```
cd paper/source/
./run_ablation_study.sh
```

Hyperparameter search (single):
```
cd paper/source/
python3 main.py --study_name 11082023_fold_999 --num_workers 70 --num_models 1000 --random_search_seed 0 --fold_id 999
python3 main.py --study_name 11082023_fold_999 --fetch_results --fold_id 999
```

Hyperparameter search (ensemble):
```
cd paper/source/
python3 main.py --study_name 07082023 --num_workers 70 --num_models 1000 --random_search_seed 0
python3 main.py --study_name 07082023 --fetch_results
```

Output will be saved at paper/output/study_results/.

## Results

### Single model (non ensemble)
```
cd paper/source/
python3 analyze_results.py single
```

### Ensemble
```
cd paper/source/
python3 analyze_results.py ensemble
```

Respective Z-Score will be printed and the predictions will be saved at paper/output/predictions/.

### Retraining models & loss balancing

For constant loss balancing:
```
python3 main.py --retrain study:///11082023_fold_999_999/718 --fold_id 999 --alpha 0.0 --beta 0.0
```

Alpha and beta can be evalauted with different values. Evaluated combinations for alpha are 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 & for beta 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9.

## Plots
To reproduce the plots, execute following commands:

```
cd paper/plots/
python3 [FILE_NAME]
```

Output will be saved at paper/output/plots/. Significance test is included in the human_performance.py script.

## Third-party tools & data
This software uses third-party sources. See the license folder.

### Data
Following additional third-party data is used:
- DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge: https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn2811262/wiki/78375 & https://github.com/dream-olfaction/olfaction-prediction
- arctander_1960: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/arctander_1960
- leffingwell: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/leffingwell
- sigma_2014: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/sigma_2014
- ifra_2019: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/ifra_2019 & https://ifrafragrance.org/priorities/ingredients/glossary

This work uses information derived from the IFRA Fragrance Ingredient Glossary, developed by The International Fragrance Association.

## License
See LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Replace files with their compressed versions

README.md, after:

# PASAL
This repository contains the implementation of the paper "PASAL: Progress- And Sparsity-Aware Loss Balancing For Heterogeneous Dataset Fusion" from Gorges et al.

### Getting started
A Dockerfile is provided to ease with the setup of the environment.

To build the image:
```
docker build . -t pasal
```

To create the container:
```
docker run -it -v ./paper:/home/pasal/paper:Z pasal
```

Some files are compressed and need to be decompressed. This can be achieved, for example, with:
```
find . -type f -name '*.tar.xz' -execdir tar -xJf {} \;
find . -type f -name '*.xz' -print0 | xargs -0 xz -d
```

## Preprocessing
Preprocessing is split into multiple parts:

### Dataset preprocessing

To process the DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge datasets and datasets from Pyrfume, run:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/datasets/
./preprocess.sh
```

### Old feature calculation
During the development, the input for the feature selection was frozen to ensure reproducibility. These files are located at source/preprocessing/old_features/.

Steps to reproduce:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/old_features/datasets/
./preprocess.sh
cd ..
python3 fusion.py
python3 to_sdf.py
python3 calculate_map4.py
python3 calculate_mordred_features_.py
```

PaDEL features were calculated with the GUI, which can be obtained [here](http://www.yapcwsoft.com/dd/padeldescriptor/).

Note that the feature calculation relies on third-party tools, that can produce non-deterministic results.

### Feature calculation
To run the feature calculation steps, execute following command, which may take a while:
```
cd paper/source/preprocessing/
./preprocess.sh
```

## Training

The flag "num_worker" must be adjusted based on the existing hardware setup.

Ablation study:
```
cd paper/source/
./run_ablation_study.sh
```

Hyperparameter search (single):
```
cd paper/source/
python3 main.py --study_name 11082023_fold_999 --num_workers 70 --num_models 1000 --random_search_seed 0 --fold_id 999
python3 main.py --study_name 11082023_fold_999 --fetch_results --fold_id 999
```

Hyperparameter search (ensemble):
```
cd paper/source/
python3 main.py --study_name 07082023 --num_workers 70 --num_models 1000 --random_search_seed 0
python3 main.py --study_name 07082023 --fetch_results
```

Output will be saved at paper/output/study_results/.

## Results

### Single model (non ensemble)
```
cd paper/source/
python3 analyze_results.py single
```

### Ensemble
```
cd paper/source/
python3 analyze_results.py ensemble
```

Respective Z-Score will be printed and the predictions will be saved at paper/output/predictions/.

### Retraining models & loss balancing

For constant loss balancing:
```
python3 main.py --retrain study:///11082023_fold_999_999/718 --fold_id 999 --alpha 0.0 --beta 0.0
```

Alpha and beta can be evalauted with different values. Evaluated combinations for alpha are 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 & for beta 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9.

## Plots
To reproduce the plots, execute following commands:

```
cd paper/plots/
python3 [FILE_NAME]
```

Output will be saved at paper/output/plots/. Significance test is included in the human_performance.py script.

## Third-party tools & data
This software uses third-party sources. See the license folder.

### Data
Following additional third-party data is used:
- DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge: https://www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn2811262/wiki/78375 & https://github.com/dream-olfaction/olfaction-prediction
- arctander_1960: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/arctander_1960
- leffingwell: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/leffingwell
- sigma_2014: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/sigma_2014
- ifra_2019: https://github.com/pyrfume/pyrfume-data/tree/main/ifra_2019 & https://ifrafragrance.org/priorities/ingredients/glossary

This work uses information derived from the IFRA Fragrance Ingredient Glossary, developed by The International Fragrance Association.

## License
See LICENSE file.
